I would say what we've done here is fine,
especially with this like,
margin bottom block w 60.
I know we've repeated
ourselves three times, but
we're not repeating ourselves
anywhere else, right?
But I know still some people are gonna
take offense to like I repeated myself too
many times.
I would like some sort of reusable class,
maybe if I had some sort of
cascading style sheet of some
variety that I could use, right?
The temptation I know that you're gonna
wanna do here is to go write CSS and
just put it here, right?
You could absolutely just
head into your style.CSS,
write my-input blah,
put that stuff in there and
drop it in your code, it works.
Tailwind is not gonna
prevent you from doing that.
But at some point you're just writing
CSS again, why are you using Tailwind?
Just go back to using CSS if
that's really what you want.
That being said,
I'm gonna show you how to add layers
where sometimes this does make sense.
And a good example of this would be like,
let's say I have a huge website that has
many forms, and I have lots of inputs.
It might make sense for you to have some
sort of layer that you can apply, right?
Some layer class.
So let me show you how to do that.
Tailwind has these three
layers it worries about.
The base layer, the base layer,
you can think of like your CSS reset.
It's just basically like, the body has
this, the ordered list has by default,
these kind of bullets, has this kind
of text and it's very like base level.
Setting kind of like the base
layer of your application.
The component layer is supposed to
be things like I have this kind of
special form, I have this kind of title,
it's very much oriented towards
the components in your application.
I have this kind of dog component.
Kind of match up with like your react
components to be honest with you.
And then you have utilities,
like is this the active one,
is this the not active one?
And so you can kind of think of it that
utility ones will be the most specific
ones, then components and
then base, right?
So, utilities will override components and
components will override base.
So you can think of them
kind of like specificity.
Utilities are more specific components or
less specific and
base are the least specific.
So, in other words, if something is
conflicting between utilities and
components, utilities wins.
If something conflicts between
components and base, components wins.
So, the first thing we wanna do is
we wanna make our own search input.
So we're gonna say layer
components .search-input,
and then we're gonna do add apply
width 60 margin-bottom 5 block.
So this add apply allows us to do Tailwind
stuff directly in our style sheets.
This makes sense to me if you're in
Tailwind, stay in Tailwind, right?
Could you absolutely say width 60% or
whatever?
Yes, absolutely,
that's gonna work but don't.
Context switching will just destroy
your productivity in my opinion.
So then we want like a grayed out Disable.
There you go.
Add apply Disabled opacity 50.
Okay, now we have these two utility
classes that we can use directly in our
search params here.
So instead of having this class name here,
I can have,
as you might imagine search input.
Here, I can get rid of this.
This is gonna be search-input and
grayed-out-disable.
And same thing up here,
I can have search input.
And now everything still works
the same but I have these utility
classes that are using Tailwind,
that is what layers are for.
By the same token if you had base things
that you wanna do let's say I have base,
then I wanted my font family,
Comic Sans Ms,
it's not gonna work I have no idea
Anyway, that's where you do
all that kind of stuff there,
would be in the base layer, right?
Rather layer base, There we go.
Now this is so much more adorable
that everything is in Comic Sans.
But to prove my point here,
if you wanted the font
family to be different here,
you can put it here and
say this is, I don't know, impact.
So now you can see inside of here,
There's a conflict between base and
components, but components wins
because component is more specific.
Okay, any questions?
All right.
So again, just to reiterate.
We are using Tailwind, the point of using
Tailwind is very fast to prototype and
you can just go ahead and
put all those classes in.
If I was using Tailwind in a project,
would not have abstract this into a search
input, I would have just left those
classes like I had them before.
I would only abstract this out until
it was truly like a reusable thing
that I was doing over and over again.
The point I'm trying to get at is
like if you're using Tailwind,
don't just use Tailwind to rewrite CSS,
that doesn't make any sense to me.
If you're gonna do that just write CSS,
right?
Use Tailwind like it's supposed to
be used, that's what I'm getting at.